Welcome back in another use for anonymous functions is to have self executing functions.
So very similar to the anonymous function.
It gives us the ability to execute a function whenever the script comes to that.
And there is a benefit for this because it does actually give us the ability to execute out and set
variables because we know variables will only live inside of the function if they're created with a
function that they're declared within the function.
So we can make use of variables within that function and output them and utilize them and then we know
that they get destroyed as soon as the function finishes rendering it.
So this is how we can create a self executing function.
So basically what's going to happen here is that this function is going to execute.
And let's set up variables.
We're setting up a variable of a.
And this one is going to say a little.
And then with in here we're creating another variable A and this one is a world
and basically lets put
We'll put a here and then let's put the value of A as well afterwards.
So after the function gets called after it runs through then were you also in another value of A.
Put a space there.
Let's try this out and we get world hello.
So basically what's happened here is that I should actually reverse the is because we know that we're
trying to Kolton this one first and one second.
So more typically you would see.
Hello world.
So let's go through what's going on here within the code and self executing self executing anonymous
functions.
They're great for holding items and variables specifically that you might not need to make use of after
you've done this initiation of them.
So you don't need to hold them in the memory any longer and basically you can get them destroyed after
an X X and executes.
And this is a great way to especially if you've got a really long program you've got a lot of variables
that you're using to make sure that you're not having conflicting values for the variables you use them
when you need to make use of them.
And then once you've completed and once you've run through your use of them then you can go back to
the global variables and then also make use of those.
So it's a way to save some space within the memory.
So basically we're setting the value of a over here or grabbing that element area to output our content
then we're creating this anonymous functions some new name for the function because we don't need to
make use of it anywhere else within our script.
We just want it to run through one time and ideally it's going to hold a bunch of variables here that
where you can do something worth.
We're going to make use of them.
We might also make use of some of the global variables we can't call them the same obviously but we
can make use of some global variables local variables create an output and then once that finishes running
all of those variables get destroyed and we go back to our global scope where we've just outputting
the initial value that we have within our global scope.
So that's what's happening there.
And when we refresh it and put it we get.
Hello world.
So what I want you to do is try this for yourself as well and try creating an anonymous function to
run and set up some variables in there and then output those variables do something with the variables
within that anonymous function.
And then once you finished then you can go back and start using some of the global variables that you
had originally set up outside of this anonymous function.
So open up your or try it for yourself.